Validation in our project requires us using the
@Valid annotation before our model,
essentially saying that we want this model object to
be valid upon entering this method.
In the method signature, you can see where we have annotated this using @Valid.
The other thing to note though is the reference passed in of the BindingResult.
It contains any errors and a flag to notify you that there was a
verification error so we can direct that to the correct view.
From here, we can direct back to the appropriate page,
in this case the form which it would have been submitted from.
Inside our form element,
we can add a form:errors tag that will only show when an error is present.
So we're going to change the controller signature in our controller,
and we can add an errors element inside of our JSP page,
all by adding specific attributes on our model object.
Let's implement this in our current project and see how this works out for us.
To begin adding validation,
we first want to start off with which object we want validate.
I'm going to open up our model, Registration class,
and let's make it to where we don't enter in a name that's just empty.
So I want to go above that member variable and say @NotEmpty.
And this will guarantee that when we ask for validation on it,
it doesn't allow an empty or blank or spaces.
There's a lot of characteristics around it that you can look up,
and there's different options we could use,
but we'll just signify @NotEmpty for now.
The next thing we want to do is open up our RegistrationController,
and there's a couple of changes we need to make inside of here,
but they're still quite minor.
As we mentioned on the previous slide,
we want to add Valid to that method signature,
saying that this model attribute we want to be valid.
And since it is a registration object,
that NotEmpty that we put in there automatically signifies that we want
it to be a valid registration object when validated.
The next thing we want to do is add a binding result to this. So we're
going to say BindingResult and give that a name of result.
And you can see in here that it just goes through the method
signature passed by reference to grab any errors that we have
in here and display them for us.
Now if we have an error,
we can easily check for it and change our navigation based off of it by
saying if result.hasErrors, go here instead. So we can return back to
the registration form without doing the post redirect get that we had
set up down below. And just to show you this is working the way that we
think it should, let's add a system.out.println in here just to show
you that there are some errors that we're going to return from this.
There were errors. And we'll save this. And this is
actually all we have to do for our code.
Now to display those errors,
we want to add some functionality to our JSP page,
but this will validate our object, and we can handle it from there.
We've got all that functionality built into it now. Let's
open up our JSP page and customize that page to show
those errors back to the user.
I want to start off by adding in a little bit of CSS. And yes,
in your project, you'll probably have a CSS file that contains all this.
But just for the sake of this example,
we're going to add it at the top of this page.
I want to go below title,
but still within the head tag. I'm going to add this style element and
inside of there two classes, an error and an errorblock. And then I want to
go below the form tag that we created earlier,
and we're going to do another form tag,
but this time going to do form:errors, and the path on this and the
CSS class is errorblock, and the element is div.
We can close that off and save it.
So we've added our error code, what it's going to look like, and
then the block to actually display that to the page. Let's exit
full screen now and start our server up,
and now we can go to our registration link.
When I click on it, it'll pull the page up.
If I enter a name in here, it would go through cleanly. But without it,
let's just see what we get.
We get our error message back saying it must not be empty.
Notice that this is the default message.
It's all lowercase.
It is my simple HTML just displaying this red error block.
But we can customize this message.
Let's make sure it still works if we enter in a name though. I'll add in
Bryan in here and hit Add Registration, and it works.
We've got our post redirect get still working, and we have
our error message still working, so great.
Let's customize that a little bit so that we've got a little bit more user friendly error message in there.